---
sidebar_position: 13
title: "Nanotechnology Perceptions Vol. 20 No. S9 (2024)"
---


805 Rafael Bustamante-Alvarez et al. Water Supply Leak Detection Based...

Unsupervised Approach to Leak Detection and Location in Water Distribution Networks,” Int. J. Appl. Math. Comput. Sci., vol. 28, no. 2, pp. 283–295, 2018 8. A. Sobolewski and P. Ostapkowicz, “Leak Detection in Liquid Transmission Pipelines Using Statistical Analysis,” Diagnostyka, vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 71-77, 2013. 9. B. Bukowska-Belniak, A. Leśniak, “Image processing of leaks detection in sequence of infrared images,” Measurement Automation Monitoring, vol. 63, no. 04, pp. 131-134, Apr. 2017. 10. M. Kosior, “The Concept of an Improved Acoustic Wireless Sensor Node for Leak Detection and Location in a Water Distribution Network,” Diagnostyka, vol. 20, no. 4, pp.  49-55, 2019. 11. A. Houshang A. Haghighi, and H. R. Ghafouri, “Machine Learning–Assisted Model for Leak Detection in Water Distribution Networks Using Hydraulic Transient Flows,” Journal of Water Resources Planning and Management, vol. 148, no. 2, 2021. 12. A. Candelieri, D. Soldi, D. Conti, and F. Archetti, “Analytical Leakages Localization in Water Distribution Networks Through Spectral Clustering and Support Vector MACHINES. The Icewater Approach,” Procedia Engineering, vol. 89, pp. 1080-1088, 2014. 13. J. Mashford, D. De Silva, D. Marney and S. Burn, "An Approach to Leak Detection in Pipe Networks Using Analysis of Monitored Pressure Values by Support Vector Machine," Third International Conference on Network and System Security, Gold Coast, QLD, Australia, pp. 534-539, 2009. 14. A. Yussif, H. Sadeghi, and T. Zayed, ”Application of Machine Learning for Leak Localization in Water Supply Networks,” Buildings, vol. 13, no. 4, 849, 2023. 15. I. Rojek and J. Studziński,”Failures Location within Water Supply Systems by Means of Neural Networks,” Journal of Automation, Mobile Robotics & Intelligent Systems, vol.8, no. 2, pp. 24-28, 2014. 16. M. M. Rajabi, P. Komeilian, X. Wan, and R. Farmani, “Leak detection and localization in water distribution networks using conditional deep convolutional generative adversarial networks,” Water Research, vol. 238, 120012, 2023. 17. M. Kwietniewski, P. Świercz, and J. Chudzicki, “Modern methods for monitoring water leakages in water networks,” Studia Geotechnica et Mechanica, vol. 44, no. 1, pp. 53–65, 2022. 18. L. Romero-Bena, D. Alves, J. Blesa, G. Cembrano, V. Puiga, and E. Duviella, “Leak detection and localization in water distribution networks: Review and perspective,” Annual Reviews in Control, vol. 55, pp. 392–419, 2023. 19. M. Farley and S. Trow, “Losses in Water Distribution Networks: A Practitioner's Guide to Assessment, Monitoring and Control,” IWA publishing, 2003. 20. A. Brateka and M. Turkowski, “Analytical system of leak detection and localization for long range liquid pipelines,” Pomiary Automatyka Kontrola, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 15-18, 2012. 21. A. Negm, X. Ma, and G. Aggidis, “Review of leakage detection in water distribution networks,” IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science, 1136, 2023. 22. T. T. T. Zan, K. Wong, H. Lim, A. J. Whittle, and B. Lee, “Leak Detection and Localization in Water Distribution System Using Time Frequency Analysis,” 22nd European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO), Lisbon-Portugal, 1-5 September, 2014.

## Nanotechnology Perceptions Vol. 20 No. S9 (2024)
