# Page 3

795 Rafael Bustamante-Alvarez et al. Water Supply Leak Detection Based...

This paper is organized as follows: Section I corresponds to the introduction where the water supply leak detection issues are described. The fundamentals on audio signal processing are shown in section II. Section III covers the procedure followed in the research, and Section IV shows the results obtained and analysis. Finally, the conclusion of the work carried out is indicated.

## 2. Background

Currently, water leak detection is performed by probes to either detect or confirm non-visible water leaks in the city's pipelines; this is done manually by listening for the sound of water leaks.  Non-visible water leaks constitute a problem of loss of drinking water, a water resource that is becoming increasingly scarce. Therefore, it is necessary to detect them in a timely manner before more visible problems occur in the city. For example, in Peru, according to statistics from the Lima Drinking Water and Sewerage Service (SEDAPAL), about 85% of water leaks occur in line pipes (user).

## The Audio Signal

It is the representation in electrical form of a sound signal, as an analog signal, whose frequency is between 20 Hz and 20KHz. As shown in Fig. 1, the sound signal is picked up by a microphone which converts it into electrical form and then amplified by an audio amplifier to be used or reproduced. The audio signal is converted into a sound signal by a speaker, which converts the audio signal into audible sound waves.

## Figure 1. Audio signal process

## Digital signal processing system

In the context of leak detection, acoustic signals generated by water flow and disturbances caused by leaks can be captured by sensors and then digitally processed [21]. FFT is a mathematical tool that decomposes a signal into its frequency components. This technique allows the identification of specific signal characteristics that may be indicative of a leak [22].

In order to be analysed in time, frequency and audibly, the audio signal must be captured, processed and reproduced.  To perform the above processes, the signal must enter a digital signal processing system to analyse the audio signal. Fig. 2 shows a digital signal processing system consisting of the following: input filter, digital analogue conversion, signal processor, digital analogue conversion and output filter.

## Nanotechnology Perceptions Vol. 20 No. S9 (2024)
